### Final Conclsions

This project looked at the inverse diagonal values of a square row stochastic diagonally dominant matrix. We first looked at the inverse diagonal values by themselves in a  graph. For all sized matrices we looked at, their inverse diagonal values appeared to increase as t increased. After observing this apparent trend, we looked to prove the trend using the derivative. Our initial perspective proved difficult, involving too many terms to realistically analyze. To alleviate this difficulty, we moved onto using an eigenvalue perspective of the determinant. Of the examples we viewed using the eigenvalue examples, the derivative remained positive through the interval t = [0, 1/2]. Once we ran into difficulty proving that diagonal values increase throughout the interval, we ran an excess amount of examples to find if sometimes the derivative is negative. With the additional examples, a few matrices that have decreasing inverse diagonal values appeared. These matrices were of smaller size and had common characteristics. The majority of counter-examples were 3x3, had small diagonal values near 0.5, and large off diagonal values in the same row. These matrices are similar to the circulant, and so we shifted our perspective to viewing the nxn circulant and its inverse diagonal values. With this analysis, we showed that the inverse diagonal values do decrease in the circulant example for odd n-sized matrices. The even-sized circulant matrices appeared to increase continually throughout the interval. We narrowed down a derivative for the inverse diagonal values of the circulant matrix and used it to find where the decrease occurs. This provided a t where the derivative is zero unique to each size of the circulant.

With this process, we have found a few takeaways. First, the majority of square row stochastic diagonally dominant matrices appear to have increasing inverse diagonal values with increasing t. This trend is not guaranteed for the whole interval, however. The circulant shows an example where the inverse diagonal values can begin to decrease. Using the determinant expression of the nxn circulant and its derivative, the lowest t where the inverse diagonal values continue to increase to is 1/3. This value comes from the 3x3 example. The highest bound of t to have increasing inverse diagonal values goes up with higher sized n. In future work, we could continue to look at other examples to find if 1/3 is truly the lowest t where the inverse diagonal values continue to increase. 

### Navigate to Other Pages

[Return to the home page](README.md)

[View definitions of symbols used in the project](definitions.md)  